Notes 22/6

Vulnerability classification:
1.	Misconfiguration/ weak configuration:
2.	Default installation / configurations
3.	Application flaws 
4.	Poor patch management
5.	Design flaws
6.	Default passwords
7.	Third-party risks.
8.	Operating system flaws
9.	Zero-day vulnerability
10.	Legacy platform vulnerabilities
11.	Undocumented assets.
12.	Improper certificate and key management
13.	Block chain vulnerabilities 
14.	AI vulnerabilities.

Attack= motive+vuln+method

Path traversal(/../../../../..):


Path hijacking:
The designer hasa not specified the binary should be used so the attacker can't create his own binary to use.

Hypervisor:
Type one: dual booting
2nd type: hypervisor usage like VBox, Vmware workstation.



Containers VS VMs

Like Docker which owns a container engine.
Container allows OS sharing, 

You can run an OS on top of your main OS

From security perspective, it's the same for both, there is a risk of escaping from container/vm to other one.


Need to write you goals using SMART method


Cryptography
1.	Encoding:
2 way direction, no CIA achived.
Purpose: limitations, transfer, storage.
ASCII, Base64, UTF, Unicode, Morse code, URL Encoding.
2.	Sym encryption
3.	Asym encryption
4.	Hashing


Important concepts needs to be studied
Authorization basics:
DAC
MAC
RBAC
ABAC
Encryption: changing the content of the data, that no one can read it using key, or pair of keys.
2way encryption, decryption.
Sym enc uses 1 key, astym enc uses 2 kyes.
It's purpose to protect the CIA.
It's protect AAA

In symmetric enc, when you send the key you need to keep a copy of the with you.


We can authenticate the messages, using the private key of A and signed it, and encrypt using the public key of B 
So B can decrypt using his private key, and fully decrypt it using the public key of A.

Hashing is a one way process, if we use a key turns to HMAC 


Hashing roles:
Collision-resistant (ideally) — it should be extremely hard for two different inputs to produce the same hash, though weaker algorithms like MD5 have known collision vulnerabilities.

The avalanche effect: if we change 1bit in the input, the output should change totally.

FIXED sized.

Every time you hash the same input, gives the same hash output

If you copy the file into many copies, they will have the same hash exactly, name doesn't matter.


If breach happens:
1-	All the passwords are exposed 
2-	The admin is able to see the passwords.
3-	Rainbow table
4-	If 2 users have the same password

Solution:
Salting:
A value added to the password and they get hashed together.

Hashing can achive:
1.	Integrity
2.	Password management




An MVP (Minimum Viable Product) in business is a product development strategy featuring just enough core functionality to satisfy early adopters and validate a business idea.











